one aspect of handwriting instruction
involves increasing a student's finger
strength and coordination this is
accomplished through simple fine motor
exercises so with my students I go
through a series of exercises one is
called finger lifts where we go through
and lift and Bend the muscles and the
finger so they're controlling the
muscles in the finger at the same time
they're inhibiting muscles in the other
hand so you can have two hands on the
table go through finger kicks one Ferren
at a time one hand at a time you can
work in directionality words as in right
index finger left index finger you can
also start to work on right and left as
far as circles another activity that we
do is called jar lid turns simple jar
lids holding the jar lids in the hands
this strengthens intrinsic muscles and
you can also work on coordination and
strength at the same time by having the
students walk their fingers around the
room you can use different sizes
depending on the size of the students
hands I asked my parents to keep these
and the doors of their cars so I'd order
their cars so that the students can
practice these exercises to and from
different activities another exercise we
do is called finger push-ups and here
you're really getting into the imitation
of the movements needed for the student
to literally move the pencil when they
form letters so they go back and forth
and then you'll work in circular motions
at well as well we do this without a
pencil we do this with a pen or pencil
that's not sharpened again moving back
and forth looking for the bending and
the
chuckles and then we also move to paper
and we work on moving the pencil back
and forth and then also working on
circles not working on any letter
formation or writing words at this time
this puts the focus purely on the
fine-motor aspect and not on the letter
formation and spelling so ultimately you
want to see the movements coming from
the thumb index and middle finger